\c 6
\p
\v 1 Leaving that place, Jesus went with his disciples to his hometown.
\v 2 On the Sabbath, he started teaching in the synagogue, and many there were completely amazed as they listened to him. They murmured to each other, “Where did he come up with all this? How come he suddenly is so eloquent and wise? And we’ve heard that miracles happen when he lays his lands on people!
\v 3 Who does he think he is, acting like this? Why he’s just the carpenter, Mary’s son, the brother of James, Joses, Jude, and Simon! And his sisters are still living here among us.” So they were thoroughly miffed and refused to listen to him.
\v 4 But Jesus said to them, “A prophet is normally honored anywhere he goes, except if he returns to his hometown or visits his relatives.
\v 5 So he only cured a few sick individuals there by placing his hands on them, but didn’t do other powerful miracles there.
\v 6 He was amazed at the extent of their closed-minded unbelief in him. So he left them, and took his teaching to the surrounding villages.
\p
\v 7 Then Jesus gathered his twelve disciples and sent them out by twos. He gave them authority to banish evil spirits,
\v 8 and these are the instructions he gave them: Take nothing with you on this hike except a walking stick. That means no bread, no knapsack, and not a penny of money.
\v 9 Take the sandals and tunic you are wearing, but no extras.
\v 10 When you go into a town and someone invites you to stay in their home, eat and sleep there only until you leave that town.
\v 11 But if no one in a town welcomes you into their home and no one wants to listen to you, as you leave that place shake off the dust from your feet and sandals\f + \fr 6:11 \fk shake off the dust from … \ft In the time of Jesus, when Jews needed to travel through any non-Jewish territory, upon leaving they would shake the dust from their feet and clothes. They did that because they considered everything in a non-Jewish territory ritually unclean. By Jesus telling his disciples to do this when leaving Jewish towns, he was telling them to give a stern warning that their refusal to listen to their message was making them unclean in God’s sight.\f* as a warning to them. I underline this truth: God’s judgment against that town will be worse than the way he punished Sodom and Gomora.”
\p
\v 12 So the disciples went out and spread the news that the time had come for everyone to repent.
\v 13 They banished demons from the people controlled by them, and anointed many who were sick with olive oil, and they were healed.
\p
\v 14-16 Because Jesus had now become famous, King Herod heard about him. But at that time, Herod had only recently killed John, the prophet who had baptized many people. So Herod kept saying, “This Jesus is really that John I had beheaded, who has come back to life. That’s why he has the power to do miracles.” But others suggested that Jesus was the Prophet Elijah, back from the dead. Still others said, “No, he is probably a new prophet, like one of the prophets of old.”
\p
\v 17-18 Now quite a while before that discussion, Herod had stolen his younger brother’s wife, Herodiana.\f + \fr 6:17 \fk Herodiana \ft Text: Ἡρῳδιάδα (accusative, singular, feminine), normally transliterated according to the nominative form, Herodias. It makes better sense for readers to use an English feminine form for her name.\f* (That brother’s name was Philip.) But then John repeatedly scolded Herod, “You have no right to be living with your brother’s wife.” So it was actually to please Herodiana that Herod sent soldiers to bind John and put him in prison.
\v 19 Herodiana hated John and wanted to have him killed, but was unable to manage that
\v 20 because Herod blocked her. Herod protected John because he respected him as an upright man who was completely devoted to God. Herod actually enjoyed listening to him, and for a time did many things based on his advice.
\v 21 However eventually Herodiana found her opportunity. 0n his birthday Herod gave a banquet for those of high birth in his court, the military generals, and the leading citizens in Galilee.
\v 22 During that party, Herodiana’s daughter performed a dance that so charmed Herod and his guests that he said to her, “Ask me for whatever yoʋ wish, and I will give it to you.”
\v 23 He even made a vow to her, “May God punish me if I don’t give you what you ask for, even up to half my kingdom.”
\v 24 She went out and asked her mother: “What shall I ask for?” And she replied, “The head of that crazy baptizer, John!”
\v 25 So the girl rushed back to the King and gave her answer, “I want you to give me on a tray, here and now, the head of that baptizer guy, John.”
\v 26 Though her request made the king feel remorse, he had made so many vows to the girl in the hearing of all those important guests, so he felt he could not refuse her.
\v 27 So he immediately sent an executioner with orders to bring John’s head.
\v 28 As ordered, the man beheaded John in the prison, brought back his head on a tray, and gave it to the girl, who gave it to her mother.
\v 29 When John’s disciples heard about this, they came and took away his body and laid it in a tomb.
\p
\v 30 When Jesus’ representatives finished their assignments and gathered again around Jesus, they told Him all about what they had done and taught.
\v 31 But there were so many people constantly coming and going that there was no time to pause for anything, not even to eat something. So Jesus said to them, “Let’s all go away to a quiet place and get a little rest.”
\p
\v 32 They then sailed away in that same boat to a lonely place.
\v 33 But many people recognized Jesus as they were leaving. This news spread to all the neighboring towns and even more people joined those who were running to where they supposed Jesus was going. The crowd arrived there before the boat landed.
\v 34 When Jesus went ashore, he saw a huge crowd, and he had compassion on them because they were like sheep without a shepherd. Then he began to teach them many things.
\p
\v 35 The crowd listened until late afternoon, which prompted the disciples to say to Jesus, “This is an uninhabited place, and it’s already late.
\v 36 Dismiss these people, so they can go off to the farms and villages near here and buy some bread, because nobody brought anything to eat.”
\p
\v 37 But Jesus replied, “No, you give them something to eat.”
\p Incredulous they said, “Where are we gonna find a year’s wages in order to buy enough bread for them?”
\p
\v 38 And he asked, “How much bread do you have? Go and find out.”
\p When they came back they said, “Five pieces of bread and a couple of fish.”
\p
\v 39 So he told them, “Organize them in groups sitting on this nice grass.”
\v 40 So the people formed seated groups of hundreds and fifties.
\v 41 Then he took the five pieces of bread and the two fish, and lifting His gaze to heaven he thanked God for the food. Then he broke the bread into portions which seemed to never run out as he kept on handing them to the disciples to distribute. And meanwhile he was doing the same with the two fish.
\v 42 Everyone ate and were fully satisfied.
\v 43 Then the disciples filled twelve baskets with the leftovers of both bread and fish.
\v 44 Counting just the men, the crowd who ate that meal numbered 5,000.
\p
\v 45 Immediately after that, Jesus insisted that all his disciples take the boat back over to Bethsaida, leaving him behind to say good-bye the crowd.
\v 46 After Jesus did that, he went by himself up the hill to pray.
\p
\v 47 When it was getting quite dark, the disciples had only managed to get half way across the Lake, while Jesus had returned to the shore.
\v 48 He saw that they were straining hard as they were rowing, because the wind was against them. Around three in morning he came towards them walking on the water. He made as if he intended to walk right on past them.
\v 49-50 They saw this form walking on the water and thought it was a ghost, so they started screaming out in terror. But Jesus quickly spoke, “No need to worry! It’s me. Don’t be afraid.”
\v 51 Then, when he stepped on board the boat, the wind suddenly stopped. The disciples were beside themselves in silent amazement.
\v 52 They might not have been so surprised had they gathered what they should have from the lesson taught by the pieces of bread. They kept their hearts and minds locked shut.
\p
\v 53 They moored the boat at Gennesaret.
\v 54 But as soon as they went ashore, the people recognized Jesus.
\v 55 Then many ran around all over the surrounding region, bringing all the sick to wherever they heard he was. Those who couldn’t walk were carried to him on their beds.
\v 56 Wherever he went, whether in a town, or village, or settlements out in the countryside, they laid those who were sick in the marketplaces. They urgently asked his permission to let the sick just touch the edge of his tunic, and everyone who did so was healed.
\p