\c 14
\v 1 At Iconium the Apostles went together to the Jewish synagogue and preached, with the result that a great number both of Jews and Greeks believed.
\v 2 But the Jews who had refused obedience stirred up the Gentiles and embittered their minds against the brethren.
\v 3 Yet Paul and Barnabas remained there for a considerable time, speaking freely and relying on the Lord, while He bore witness to the Message of His grace by permitting signs and marvels to be done by them.
\v 4 At length the people of the city split into parties, some siding with the Jews and some with the Apostles.
\v 5 And when a hostile movement was made by both Gentiles and Jews, with the sanction of their magistrates, to maltreat and stone them,
\v 6 the Apostles, having become aware of it, made their escape into the Lycaonian towns of Lystra and Derbe, and the neighbouring country.
\v 7 And there they continued to tell the Good News.
\p
\v 8 Now a man who had no power in his feet used to sit in the streets of Lystra. He had been lame from his birth and had never walked.
\v 9 After this man had listened to one of Paul's sermons, the Apostle, looking steadily at him and perceiving that he had faith to be cured,
\v 10 said in a loud voice, "Stand upright upon your feet!"
\v 11 So he sprang up and began to walk about. Then the crowds, seeing what Paul had done, rent the air with their shouts in the Lycaonian language, saying, "The gods have assumed human form and have come down to us."
\v 12 They called Barnabas `Zeus,' and Paul, as being the principal speaker, `Hermes.'
\v 13 And the priest of Zeus--the temple of Zeus being at the entrance to the city--brought bullocks and garlands to the gates, and in company with the crowd was intending to offer sacrifices to them.
\v 14 But the Apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard of it; and tearing their clothes they rushed out into the middle of the crowd, exclaiming, "Sirs, why are you doing all this?
\v 15 We also are but men, with natures kindred to your own; and we bring you the Good News that you are to turn from these unreal things, to worship the ever-living God, the Creator of earth and sky and sea and of everything that is in them.
\v 16 In times gone by He allowed all the nations to go their own ways;
\v 17 and yet by His beneficence He has not left His existence unattested--His beneficence, I mean, in sending you rain from Heaven and fruitful seasons, satisfying your hearts with food and joyfulness."
\v 18 Even with words like these they had difficulty in preventing the thronging crowd from offering sacrifices to them.
\p
\v 19 But now a party of Jews came from Antioch and Iconium, and, having won over the crowd, they stoned Paul and dragged him out of the town, believing him to be dead.
\v 20 When, however, the disciples had collected round him, he rose and went back into the town. The next day he went with Barnabas to Derbe;
\v 21 and, after proclaiming the Good News to the people there and gaining a large number of converts, they retraced their steps to Lystra, Iconium, and Antioch.
\v 22 Everywhere they strengthened the disciples by encouraging them to hold fast to the faith, and warned them saying, "It is through many afflictions that we must make our way into the Kingdom of God."
\v 23 And in every Church, after prayer and fasting, they selected Elders by show of hands, and commended them to the Lord on whom their faith rested.
\v 24 Then passing through Pisidia they came into Pamphylia;
\v 25 and after telling the Message at Perga they came down to Attaleia.
\v 26 Thence they sailed to Antioch, where they had previously been commended to the grace of God in connexion with the work which they had now completed.
\v 27 Upon their arrival they called the Church together and proceeded to report in detail all that God, working with them, had done, and how He had opened for the Gentiles the door of faith.
\v 28 And they remained a considerable time in Antioch with the disciples.
\p