\c 1
\v 1 My former narrative, Theophilus, dealt with all that Jesus did and taught as a beginning, down to the day on which,
\v 2 after giving instruction through the Holy Spirit to the Apostles whom He had chosen, He was taken up to Heaven.
\v 3 He had also, after He suffered, shown Himself alive to them with many sure proofs, appearing to them at intervals during forty days, and speaking of the Kingdom of God.
\v 4 And while in their company He charged them not to leave Jerusalem, but to wait for the Father's promised gift. "This you have heard of," He said, "from me.
\v 5 For John indeed baptized with water, but before many days have passed you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit."
\p
\v 6 Once when they were with Him, they asked Him, "Master, is this the time at which you are about to restore the kingdom of Israel?"
\v 7 "It is not for you," He replied, "to know times or epochs which the Father has reserved within His own authority;
\v 8 and yet you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judaea and Samaria and to the remotest parts of the earth."
\v 9 When He had said this, and while they were looking at Him, He was carried up, and a cloud closing beneath Him hid Him from their sight.
\v 10 But, while they stood intently gazing into the sky as He went, suddenly there were two men in white garments standing by them,
\v 11 who said, "Galilaeans, why stand looking into the sky? This same Jesus who has been taken up from you into Heaven will come in just the same way as you have seen Him going into Heaven."
\p
\v 12 Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mountain called the Oliveyard, which is near Jerusalem, about a mile off.
\v 13 They entered the city, and they went up to the upper room which was now their fixed place for meeting. Their names were Peter and John, James and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus, Simon the Zealot, and Judas the brother of James.
\v 14 All of these with one mind continued earnest in prayer, together with some women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and His brothers.
\p
\v 15 It was on one of these days that Peter stood up in the midst of the brethren--the entire number of persons present being about 120--and said,
\v 16 "Brethren, it was necessary that the Scripture should be fulfilled--the prediction, I mean, which the Holy Spirit uttered by the lips of David, about Judas, who acted as guide to those who arrested Jesus.
\v 17 For Judas was reckoned as one of our number, and a share in this ministry was allotted to him."
\v 18 (Now having bought a piece of ground with the money paid for his wickedness he fell there with his face downwards, and, his body bursting open, he became disembowelled.
\v 19 This fact became widely known to the people of Jerusalem, so that the place received the name, in their language, of Achel-damach, which means `The Field of Blood.')
\v 20 "For it is written in the Book of Psalms, "`Let his encampment be desolate: let there be no one to dwell there'; and "`His work let another take up.'
\v 21 "It is necessary, therefore, that of the men who have been with us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us--
\v 22 beginning from His baptism by John down to the day on which He was taken up again from us into Heaven--one should be appointed to become a witness with us as to His resurrection."
\v 23 So two names were proposed, Joseph called Bar-sabbas--and surnamed Justus--and Matthias.
\v 24 And the brethren prayed, saying, "Thou, Lord, who knowest the hearts of all, show clearly which of these two Thou hast chosen
\v 25 to occupy the place in this ministry and Apostleship from which Judas through transgression fell, in order to go to his own place."
\v 26 Then they drew lots between them. The lot fell on Matthias, and a place among the eleven Apostles was voted to him.
\p