\c 28
\v 1 After the Sabbath, in the early dawn of the first day of the week, Mary of Magdala and the other Mary came to see the sepulchre.
\v 2 But to their amazement there had been a great earthquake; for an angel of the Lord had descended from Heaven, and had come and rolled back the stone, and was sitting upon it.
\v 3 His appearance was like lightning, and his raiment white as snow.
\v 4 For fear of him the guards trembled violently, and became like dead men.
\v 5 But the angel said to the women, “As for you, dismiss your fears. I know that it is Jesus that you are looking for— the crucified One.
\v 6 He is not here: He has come back to life, as He foretold. Come and see the place where He lay.
\v 7 And go quickly and tell His disciples that He has risen from the dead and is going before you into Galilee: there you shall see Him. Remember, I have told you.”
\v 8 They quickly left the tomb and ran, still terrified but full of unspeakable joy, to carry the news to His disciples.
\v 9 And then suddenly they saw Jesus coming to meet them. “Peace be to you,” He said. And they came and clasped His feet, bowing to the ground before Him.
\v 10 Then He said, “Dismiss all fear! Go and take word to my brethren to go into Galilee, and there they shall see me.”
\p
\v 11 While they went on this errand, some of the guards came into the city and reported to the high priests every detail of what had happened.
\v 12 So the latter held a conference with the Elders, and after consultation with them they heavily bribed the soldiers,
\v 13 telling them to say, “His disciples came during the night and stole his body while we were asleep.”
\v 14 “And if this,” they added, “is reported to the Governor, we will satisfy him and screen you from punishment.”
\v 15 So they took the money and did as they were instructed; and this story was noised about among the Jews, and is current to this day.
\p
\v 16 As for the eleven disciples, they proceeded into Galilee, to the hill where Jesus had arranged to meet them.
\v 17 There they saw Him and prostrated themselves before Him. Yet some doubted.
\v 18 Jesus however came near and said to them, “All power in Heaven and over the earth has been given to me.
\v 19 Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations; baptize them into the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit;
\v 20 and teach them to obey every command which I have given you. And remember, I am with you always, day by day, until the Close of the Age.”