\c 4
\v 1 Masters, deal justly and equitably with your slaves, knowing that you too have a Master in Heaven.
\p
\v 2 Be earnest and unwearied in prayer, being on the alert in it and in your giving of thanks.
\v 3 And pray at the same time for us also, that God may open for us a door for preaching, for us to tell the truth concerning Christ for the sake of which I am even a prisoner.
\v 4 Then I shall proclaim it fully, as it is my duty to do.
\p
\v 5 Behave wisely in relation to the outside world, buying up your opportunities.
\v 6 Let your language be always seasoned with the salt of grace, so that you may know how to give every man a fitting answer.
\p
\v 7 Tychicus, our much-loved brother, a trusty assistant and fellow servant with us in the Lord’s work, will give you every information about me.
\v 8 And for this very purpose I send him to you that you may know how we are faring; and that he may cheer your hearts.
\v 9 And with him I send our dear and trusty brother Onesimus, who is one of yourselves. They will inform you of everything here.
\v 10 Aristarchus my fellow prisoner sends greeting to you, and so does Barnabas’s cousin Mark. You have received instructions as to him; if he comes to you, give him a welcome.
\v 11 Jesus, called Justus, also sends greeting. These three are Hebrew converts. They alone among such have worked loyally with me for the Kingdom of God--they are men who have been a comfort to me.
\v 12 Epaphras, who is one of yourselves, a bondservant of Jesus Christ, sends greetings to you, always wrestling on your behalf in his prayers, that you may stand firm--Christians of ripe character and of clear conviction as to everything which is God’s will.
\v 13 For I can bear witness to the deep interest he takes in you and in the brethren at Laodicea and in those at Hierapolis.
\v 14 Luke, the dearly-loved physician, salutes you, and so does Demas.
\v 15 Christian greetings to the brethren at Laodicea, especially to Nymphas, and to the Church that meets at their house.
\v 16 And when this Letter has been read among you, let it be read also in the Church of the Laodiceans, and you in turn must read the one I am sending to Laodicea.
\v 17 And tell Archippus to discharge carefully the duties devolving upon him as a servant of the Lord.
\v 18 I Paul add with my own hand this final greeting. Be mindful of me in my imprisonment. Grace be with you.