\c 5
\p
\v 1 Christ having made us gloriously free— stand fast and do not again be hampered with the yoke of slavery.
\v 2 Remember that it is I Paul who tell you that if you receive circumcision Christ will avail you nothing.
\v 3 I once more protest to every man who receives circumcision that he is under obligation to obey the whole Law of Moses.
\v 4 Christ has become nothing to any of you who are seeking acceptance with God through the Law: you have fallen away from grace.
\v 5 *We* have not, for through the Spirit we wait with longing hope for an acceptance with God which is to come through faith.
\v 6 For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision is of any importance; but only faith working through love.
\v 7 You were running the race nobly! Who has interfered and caused you to swerve from the truth?
\v 8 No such teaching ever proceeded from Him who is calling you.
\v 9 A little yeast corrupts the whole of the dough.
\v 10 For my part I have strong confidence in you in the Lord that you will adopt my view of the matter. But the man— be he who he may— who is troubling you, will have to bear the full weight of the judgement to be pronounced on him.
\v 11 As for me, brethren, if I am still a preacher of circumcision, how is it that I am still suffering persecution? In that case the Cross has ceased to be a stumbling-block!
\v 12 Would to God that those who are unsettling your faith would even mutilate themselves.
\p
\v 13 You however, brethren, were called to freedom. Only do not turn your freedom into an excuse for giving way to your lower natures; but become bondservants to one another in a spirit of love.
\v 14 For the entire Law has been obeyed when you have kept the single precept, which says, “You are to love your fellow man equally with yourself.”
\v 15 But if you are perpetually snarling and snapping at one another, beware lest you are destroyed by one another.
\v 16 This then is what I mean. Let your lives be guided by the Spirit, and then you will certainly not indulge the cravings of your lower natures.
\v 17 For the cravings of the lower nature are opposed to those of the Spirit, and the cravings of the Spirit are opposed to those of the lower nature; because these are antagonistic to each other, so that you cannot do everything to which you are inclined.
\v 18 But if the Spirit is leading you, you are not subject to Law.
\v 19 Now you know full well the doings of our lower natures. Fornication, impurity, indecency, idol-worship, sorcery;
\v 20 enmity, strife, jealousy, outbursts of passion, intrigues, dissensions, factions, envyings;
\v 21 hard drinking, riotous feasting, and the like. And as to these I forewarn you, as I have already forewarned you, that those who are guilty of such things will have no share in the Kingdom of God.
\v 22 The Spirit, on the other hand, brings a harvest of love, joy, peace; patience towards others, kindness, benevolence;
\v 23 good faith, meekness, self-restraint.
\v 24 Against such things as these there is no law. Now those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified their lower nature with its passions and appetites.
\v 25 If we are living by the Spirit’s power, let our conduct also be governed by the Spirit’s power.
\v 26 Let us not become vain-glorious, challenging one another, envying one another.
\p