\c 18
\v 1 After this he left Athens and came to Corinth.
\v 2 Here he found a Jew, a native of Pontus, of the name of Aquila. He and his wife Priscilla had recently come from Italy because of Claudius's edict expelling all the Jews from Rome. So Paul paid them a visit;
\v 3 and because he was of the same trade--that of tent-maker--he lodged with them and worked with them.
\v 4 But, Sabbath after Sabbath, he preached in the synagogue and tried to win over both Jews and Greeks.
\v 5 Now at the time when Silas and Timothy came down from Macedonia, Paul was preaching fervently and was solemnly telling the Jews that Jesus is the Christ.
\v 6 But upon their opposing him with abusive language, he shook his clothes by way of protest, and said to them, "Your ruin will be upon your own heads. I am not responsible: in future I will go among the Gentiles."
\p
\v 7 So he left the place and went to the house of a person called Titius Justus, a worshipper of the true God. His house was next door to the synagogue.
\v 8 And Crispus, the Warden of the synagogue, believed in the Lord, and so did all his household; and from time to time many of the Corinthians who heard Paul believed and received baptism.
\v 9 And, in a vision by night, the Lord said to Paul, "Dismiss your fears: go on speaking, and do not give up.
\v 10 I am with you, and no one shall attack you to injure you; for I have very many people in this city."
\v 11 So Paul remained in Corinth for a year and six months, teaching among them the Message of God.
\p
\v 12 But when Gallio became Proconsul of Greece, the Jews with one accord made a dead set at Paul, and brought him before the court.
\v 13 "This man," they said, "is inducing people to offer unlawful worship to God."
\v 14 But, when Paul was about to begin his defence, Gallio said to the Jews, "If it had been some wrongful act or piece of cunning knavery I might reasonably have listened to you Jews.
\v 15 But since these are questions about words and names and your Law, you yourselves must see to them. I refuse to be a judge in such matters."
\v 16 So he ordered them out of court.
\v 17 Then the people all set upon Sosthenes, the Warden of the synagogue, and beat him severely in front of the court. Gallio did not concern himself in the least about this.
\p
\v 18 After remaining a considerable time longer in Corinth, Paul took leave of the brethren and set sail for Syria; and Priscilla and Aquila were with him. He had shaved his head at Cenchreae, because he was bound by a vow.
\v 19 They put in at Ephesus, and there Paul left his companions behind. As for himself, he went to the synagogue and had a discussion with the Jews.
\v 20 When they asked him to remain longer he did not consent,
\v 21 but took leave of them with the promise, "I will return to you, God willing." So he set sail from Ephesus.
\v 22 Landing at Caesarea, he went up to Jerusalem and inquired after the welfare of the Church, and then went down to Antioch.
\v 23 After spending some time in Antioch, Paul set out on a tour, visiting the whole of Galatia and Phrygia in order, and strengthening all the disciples.
\p
\v 24 Meanwhile a Jew named Apollos came to Ephesus. He was a native of Alexandria, a man of great learning and well versed in the Scriptures.
\v 25 He had been instructed by word of mouth in the way of the Lord, and, being full of burning zeal, he used to speak and teach accurately the facts about Jesus, though he knew of no baptism but John's.
\v 26 He began to speak boldly in the synagogue, and Priscilla and Aquila, after hearing him, took him home and explained God's way to him more accurately.
\v 27 Then, as he had made up his mind to cross over into Greece, the brethren wrote to the disciples in Corinth begging them to give him a kindly welcome. Upon his arrival he rendered valuable help to those who through grace had believed;
\v 28 for he powerfully and in public overcame the Jews in argument, proving to them from the Scriptures that Jesus is the Christ.
\p