\c 1
\v 1 God, who in ancient days spoke to our forefathers in many distinct messages and by various methods through the Prophets,
\v 2 has at the end of these days spoken to us through a Son, who is the pre-destined Lord of the universe, and through whom He made the Ages.
\v 3 He brightly reflects God's glory and is the exact representation of His being, and upholds the universe by His all-powerful word. After securing man's purification from sin He took His seat at the right hand of the Majesty on high,
\p
\v 4 having become as far superior to the angels as the Name He possesses by inheritance is more excellent than theirs.
\v 5 For to which of the angels did God ever say, “My Son art Thou: I have this day become Thy Father;” and again, “I will be a Father to Him, and He shall be My Son”?
\v 6 But speaking of the time when He once more brings His Firstborn into the world, He says, “And let all God's angels worship Him.”
\v 7 Moreover of the angels He says, “He changes His angels into winds, and His ministering servants into a flame of fire.”
\v 8 But of His Son, He says, “Thy throne, O God, is for ever and for ever, and the sceptre of Thy Kingdom is a sceptre of absolute justice.
\v 9 Thou hast loved righteousness and hated lawlessness; therefore God, Thy God, has anointed Thee with the oil of gladness beyond Thy companions.”
\v 10 It is also of His Son that God says, “Thou, O Lord, in the beginning didst lay the foundations of the earth, and the heavens are the work of Thy hands.
\v 11 The heavens will perish, but Thou remainest; and they will all grow old like a garment,
\v 12 and, as though they were a mantle Thou wilt roll them up; yes, like a garment, and they will undergo change. But Thou art the same, and Thy years will never come to an end.”
\v 13 To which of the angels has He ever said, “Sit at My right hand till I make Thy foes a footstool for Thy feet”?
\v 14 Are not all angels spirits that serve Him--whom He sends out to render service for the benefit of those who, before long, will inherit salvation?
\p