\c 4
\p
\v 1 Therefore, since Christ suffered for our sake in his physical body, you also must arm yourselves with a readiness to suffer for him, because anyone who suffers as a follower of Christ has made the commitment to stop sinning.
\v 2 That commitment is to live out the rest of our lives not chasing our human passions, but setting our hearts on following the will of God.
\v 3 For you have already spent enough of your lives chasing the things which delight people who don't know God. This includes all forms of sexual immorality, and doing anything lust prompts you to do, including parties for drinking and sex, and doing any of the above in the worship of idols.
\p
\v 4 Your former friends are taken aback at you for not joining them as before in their total abandonment of self-control. Then they quickly turn to heaping abuse on you.
\v 5 But remember that it will not be long before they will have to give account for their wickedness to God, who stands ready to judge both the living and the dead.
\p
\v 6 So don't pass by the offer of the Good News. After being judged so harshly long ago, the imprisoned spirits\x + \xo 4:6 \xt 1Ptr. 3:19\x* only received that one chance to accept the Good News, that they might live forever with God.
\p
\v 7 But the end of all things is now close at hand. Therefore be alert and exercise self-control, so that you realize what you should to pray for.
\v 8 Above all, continue to love one another fervently, for love will throw a veil over a multitude of faults.
\v 9 When travelling fellow believers need a meal or a place to stay, cheerfully help them without grumbling.
\v 10 Use whatever special ability the Holy Spirit has given to each of you for helping one another, as good managers of God’s many-sided kindness.
\v 11 If your special ability is in speaking, consider it an awesome responsibility to function like God's spokesman, uttering his very words. If your special ability is helping others, help them freely as God supplies the strength to do so. No matter what special ability you have received, may your aim be that Christ Jesus will be known, and through this that God will be glorified, for to him belong the glory and the power forever and ever. Amen.
\p
\v 12 Dear friends, do not be surprised at finding that that scorching flame of persecution is raging among you to put you to the test— as though some surprising thing were accidentally happening to you.
\v 13 On the contrary, in the degree that you share in the sufferings of the Christ, rejoice, so that at the unveiling of His glory you may also rejoice with triumphant gladness.
\v 14 You are to be envied, if you are being reproached for bearing the name of Christ; for in that case the Spirit of glory— even the Spirit of God— is resting upon you.
\v 15 But let not one of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evil-doer, or as a spy upon other people’s business.
\v 16 If, however, any one suffers because he is a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God for being permitted to bear that name.
\v 17 For the time has come for judgement to begin, and to begin at the house of God; and if it begins with us, what will be the end of those who reject God’s Good News?
\v 18 And if it is difficult even for a righteous man to be saved, what will become of irreligious men and sinners?
\v 19 Therefore also, let those who are suffering in accordance with the will of God entrust their souls in well-doing to a faithful Creator.
\p