\c 5
\v 1 For every High Priest is chosen from among men, and is appointed to act on behalf of men in matters relating to God, in order to offer both gifts and sin-offerings,
\v 2 and must be one who is able to bear patiently with the ignorant and erring, because he himself also is beset with infirmity.
\v 3 And for this reason he is required to offer sin-offerings not only for the people but also for himself.
\v 4 And no one takes this honourable office upon himself, but only accepts it when called to it by God, as Aaron was.
\v 5 So Christ also did not claim for Himself the honour of being made High Priest, but was appointed to it by Him who said to Him, “My Son art Thou: I have to-day become Thy Father;”
\v 6 as also in another passage He says, “Thou art a priest for ever, belonging to the order of Melchizedek.”
\v 7 For Jesus during his earthly life offered up prayers and entreaties, crying aloud and weeping as He pleaded with Him who was able to bring Him in safety out of death, and He was delivered from the terror from which He shrank.
\v 8 Although He was God’s Son, yet He learned obedience from the sufferings which He endured;
\v 9 and so, having been made perfect, He became to all who obey Him the source and giver of eternal salvation.
\p
\v 10 For God Himself addresses Him as a High Priest for ever, belonging to the order of Melchizedek.
\v 11 Concerning Him we have much to say, and much that it would be difficult to make clear to you, since you have become so dull of apprehension.
\v 12 For although, considering the long time you have been believers, you ought now to be teachers of others, you really need some one to teach you over again the very rudiments of the truths of God, and you have come to require milk instead of solid food.
\v 13 By people who live on milk I mean those who are imperfectly acquainted with the teaching concerning righteousness.
\v 14 Such persons are mere babes. But solid food is for adults— that is, for those who through constant practice have their spiritual faculties carefully trained to distinguish good from evil.
\p