\c 14
\p
\v 1 Two days before the Passover and the simultaneous week-long Days For Eating Unleavened Bread, the High Priests and teachers of Jewish law were bent on finding a way to stealthely seize Jesus and kill him.
\v 2 But they said, “It can't be done during this celebration week. We can't risk a riot being incited by his crowd of followers.”
\p
\v 3 Meanwhile, Jesus visited the house of Simon the Leper in Bethany. During the meal, a woman came with an alabaster bottle containing pure nard, a very expensive perfume. (This kind of stone bottle was designed to be opened by breaking the thin neck.) She broke open the bottle and poured the ointment over Jesus' head.
\v 4 But there were some who said indignantly among themselves, “Wow, what a waste of that perfume!
\v 5 That was worth about a year's wages! If we could have sold it, think how many poor people we might have helped.” They continued saying things like that, scolding the woman harshly.
\v 6 But Jesus said, “Leave her alone! It's not right for you to heap criticism on her. She has done a beautiful thing to me.
\v 7 There will never be a time when you can't do a kind deed to someone who is poor. But I won't always be with you.
\v 8 This woman has done the very best thing possible for me at this time: The oil she poured on my head has perfumed my body in preparation for my burial.
\v 9 I emphasize this truth for you to remember: In every place in the whole world where the Good News about me will be proclaimed, this woman will be admired for what she has done.”
\p
\v 10 Soon after this, Judas from the village of Cariot, already mentioned as one of the twelve disciples, went to the high priests with the offer to betray Jesus to them.
\v 11 They gladly accepted his offer, and promised to give him a sum of money. So he started looking for an opportunity to hand him over to them.
\p
\v 12 On the first of the Days For Eating Unleavened Bread, which was the customary day for sacrificing the Passover lamb, Jesus' disciples asked him, “Where do you want us to make preparations for eating the Passover meal?”
\p
\v 13 So He sent two of his disciples with these instructions, “As you are entering the city, you will see a man carrying a pitcher of water. Follow him,
\v 14 and whatever house he enters, you go in also. Say to the house owner, ‘Our teacher asks, “Where is the room where I can eat the Passover meal with my disciples?”’
\v 15 Then he show you a large room upstairs that is ready and furnished. That's where you will make preparations for us.”
\v 16 So the two disciples went to the city and found everything just as He had told them. They made preparations for the Passover meal.
\p
\v 17 When it was evening, Jesus arrived with the rest of the disciples.
\v 18 While they were eating Jesus said, “Remember this important truth: One of you here, eating with me now, will hand me over to my enemies.”
\p
\v 19 They were filled with sorrow and one after another were saying to him, “Please tell me that it won't be me.”
\p
\v 20 “It is one of you twelve,” he replied. “One of you who is dipping bread into this same dish with me.
\v 21 For I, as the prophesied Son of Adam, will suffer the fate that is written about me; but how terrible will be the punishment for the man who betrays me! He will wish that he had never been born.”
\p
\v 22 During the meal Jesus took a piece of flat bread, thanked God for it, and broke it into pieces. As he passed the dish to them he said, “Eat this. It represents my body.”
\v 23 Then He took the cup, thanked God for the wine, and handed it to one of them. As they were taking turns drinking from the cup
\v 24 he said, “This represents my blood, which will be poured out as a sacrifice for many. My blood is legal seal that ratifies the new covenant between God and his people.
\v 25 Remember this truth: I will never again taste wine or other food from grapes until I drink new wine in the kingdom of God.”
\v 26 After singing a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
\v 27 Then Jesus said to them, “All of you are will fall away from me tonight, because it will happen as God said in his Word, ‘I will strike down the shepherd, and his sheep will be scattered in all directions.’
\v 28 But after my Father has raised me to life again, I will go ahead of you to Galilee.”
\p
\v 29 Then Peter spoke up, “Maybe all the others here will fall away from you, but I never will.”
\p
\v 30 And Jesus replied, “I solemnly tell you, that today, on this very night, before the cock crows twice, you yourself will disown me three times.”
\v 31 “Even if I must die with you,” declared Peter again and again, “I will never disown you.” In like manner protested also all the disciples.
\p
\v 32 So they came to a place called Gethsemane. There He said to His disciples, “Sit down here till I have prayed.”
\v 33 Then He took with Him Peter and James and John, and began to be full of terror and distress,
\v 34 and He said to them, “My heart is oppressed with anguish to the very point of death: wait here and keep awake.”
\v 35 Going forward a short distance He threw Himself upon His face and prayed repeatedly that, if it was possible, He might be spared that time of agony;
\v 36 and He said, “Abba! my Father! all things are possible for Thee: take this cup of suffering away from me: and yet not what I desire, but what Thou desirest.”
\v 37 Then He came and found them asleep, and He said to Peter, “Simon, are you asleep? Had you not strength to keep awake a single hour?
\v 38 Be wakeful, all of you, and keep on praying, that you may not come into temptation: the spirit is right willing, but the body is frail.”
\v 39 He again went away and prayed, using the very same words.
\v 40 When He returned He again found them asleep, for they were very tired; and they knew not how to answer Him.
\v 41 A third time He came, and then He said, “Sleep on and rest. Enough! the hour has come. Even now they are betraying the Son of Man into the hands of sinful men.
\v 42 Rouse yourselves, let us be going: my betrayer is close at hand.”
\p
\v 43 Immediately, while He was still speaking, Judas, one of the Twelve, came and with him a crowd of men armed with swords and cudgels, sent by the High Priests and Scribes and Elders.
\v 44 Now the betrayer had arranged a signal with them. “The one I kiss,” he said, “is the man: lay hold of him, and take him safely away.”
\v 45 So he came, and going straight to Jesus he said, “Rabbi!” and kissed Him with seeming affection;
\v 46 whereupon they laid hands on Him and held Him firmly.
\v 47 But one of those who stood by drew his sword and struck a blow at the High Priest’s servant, cutting off his ear.
\v 48 “Have you come out,” said Jesus, “with swords and cudgels to arrest me, as if you had to fight with a robber?
\v 49 Day after day I used to be among you in the Temple teaching, and you never seized me. But this is happening in order that the Scriptures may be fulfilled.’
\v 50 Then His friends all forsook Him and fled.
\v 51 One youth indeed did follow Him, wearing only a linen cloth round his bare body. Of him they laid hold,
\v 52 but he left the linen cloth in their hands and fled without it.
\p
\v 53 So they led Jesus away to the High Priest, and with him there assembled all the High Priests, Elders, and Scribes.
\v 54 Peter followed Jesus at a distance, as far as the outer court of the High Priest’s palace. But there he remained sitting among the officers, and warming himself by the fire.
\v 55 Meanwhile the High Priests and the entire Sanhedrin were endeavouring to get evidence against Jesus in order to put Him to death, but could find none;
\v 56 for though many gave false testimony against Him, their statements did not tally.
\v 57 Then some came forward as witnesses and falsely declared,
\v 58 “We have heard him say, ‘I will pull down this Sanctuary built by human hands, and three days afterwards I will erect another built without hands.’”
\v 59 But not even in this shape was their testimony consistent.
\v 60 At last the High Priest stood up, and advancing into the midst of them all, asked Jesus, “Have you no answer to make? What is the meaning of all this that these witnesses allege against you?”
\v 61 But He remained silent, and gave no reply. A second time the High Priest questioned Him. “Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed One?” he said.
\v 62 “I am,” replied Jesus, “and you and others will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the divine Power, and coming amid the clouds of the sky.”
\v 63 Rending his garments the High Priest exclaimed, “What need have we of witnesses after that?
\v 64 You all heard his impious words. What is your judgement?” Then with one voice they condemned Him as deserving of death.
\v 65 Thereupon some began to spit on Him, and to blindfold Him, while striking Him with their fists and crying, “Prove that you are a prophet.” The officers too struck Him with open hands as they took Him in charge.
\p
\v 66 Now while Peter was below in the quadrangle, one of the High Priest’s maidservants came,
\v 67 and seeing Peter warming himself she looked at him and said, “You also were with Jesus, the Nazarene.”
\v 68 But he denied it, and said, “I don’t know— I don’t understand— What do you mean?” And then he went out into the outer court. Just then a cock crowed.
\v 69 Again the maidservant saw him, and again began to say to the people standing by, “He is one of them.”
\v 70 A second time he repeatedly denied it. Soon afterwards the bystanders again accused Peter, saying, “You are surely one of them, for you too are a Galilaean.”
\v 71 But he broke out into curses and oaths, declaring, “I know nothing of the man you are talking about.”
\v 72 No sooner had he spoken than a cock crowed for the second time, and Peter recollected the words of Jesus, “Before the cock crows twice, you will three times disown me.” And as he thought of it, he wept aloud.
\p