\c 5
\v 1 And I saw lying in the right hand of Him who sat on the throne a book written on both sides and closely sealed with seven seals.
\v 2 And I saw a mighty angel who was exclaiming in a loud voice, “Who is worthy to open the book and break its seals?”
\v 3 But no one in Heaven, or on earth, or under the earth, was able to open the book or look into it.
\v 4 And while I was weeping bitterly, because no one was found worthy to open the book or look into it,
\v 5 one of the Elders said to me, “Do not weep. The Lion which belongs to the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has triumphed, and will open the book and break its seven seals.”
\p
\v 6 Then, midway between the throne and the four living creatures, I saw a Lamb standing among the Elders. He looked as if He had been offered in sacrifice, and He had seven horns and seven eyes. The last-named are the seven Spirits of God, and have been sent far and wide into all the earth.
\v 7 So He comes, and now He has taken the book out of the right hand of Him who is seated on the throne.
\v 8 And when He had taken the book, the four living creatures and the twenty-four Elders fell down before the Lamb, having each of them a harp and bringing golden bowls full of incense, which represent the prayers of God’s people.
\v 9 And now they sing a new song. “It is fitting,” they say, “that Thou shouldst be the One to take the book And break its seals; Because Thou hast been offered in sacrifice, And hast purchased for God with Thine own blood Some out of every tribe and language and people and nation,
\v 10 And hast formed them into a Kingdom to be priests to our God, And they reign over the earth.”
\v 11 And I looked, and heard what seemed to be the voices of countless angels on every side of the throne, and of the living creatures and the Elders. Their number was myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands,
\v 12 and in loud voices they were singing, “It is fitting that the Lamb which has been offered in sacrifice should receive all power and riches and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing.”
\v 13 And as for every created thing in Heaven and on earth and under the earth and on the sea, and everything that was in any of these, I heard them say, “To Him who is seated on the throne, And to the Lamb, Be ascribed all blessing and honor And glory and might, Until the Ages of the Ages!”
\v 14 Then the four living creatures said “Amen,” and the Elders fell down and worshipped.
\p