\c 2
\v 1 You then, my child, must be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus.
\v 2 All that you have been taught by me in the hearing of many witnesses, you must hand on to trusty men who shall themselves, in turn, be competent to instruct others also.
\v 3 As a good soldier of Christ Jesus accept your share of suffering.
\v 4 Every one who serves as a soldier keeps himself from becoming entangled in the world’s business— so that he may satisfy the officer who enlisted him.
\v 5 And if any one takes part in an athletic contest, he gets no prize unless he obeys the rules.
\v 6 The harvestman who labours in the field must be the first to get a share of the crop.
\v 7 Mark well what I am saying: the Lord will give you discernment in everything.
\p
\v 8 Never forget that Jesus Christ has risen from among the dead and is a descendant of David, as is declared in the Good News which I preach.
\v 9 For preaching the Good News I suffer, and am even put in chains, as if I were a criminal: yet the word of God is not imprisoned.
\v 10 For this reason I endure all things for the sake of God’s own people; so that they also may obtain salvation— even the salvation which is in Christ Jesus— and with it eternal glory.
\v 11 Faithful is the saying: “If we died with Him, we shall also live with Him;
\v 12 “If we patiently endure pain, we shall also share His Kingship; “If we disown Him, He will also disown us;
\v 13 “And even if *our* faith fails, He remains true— He cannot prove false to Himself.”
\p
\v 14 Bring all this to men’s remembrances, solemnly charging them in the presence of God not to waste time in wrangling about mere words, a course which is altogether unprofitable and tends only to the ruin of the hearers.
\v 15 Earnestly seek to commend yourself to God as a servant who, because of his straightforward dealing with the word of truth, has no reason to feel any shame.
\v 16 But from irreligious and frivolous talk hold aloof, for those who indulge in it will proceed from bad to worse in impiety,
\v 17 and their teaching will spread like a running sore. Hymenaeus and Philetus are men of that stamp.
\v 18 In the matter of the truth they have gone astray, saying that the Resurrection is already past, and so they are overthrowing the faith of some.
\p
\v 19 Yet God’s solid foundation stands unmoved, bearing this inscription, “The Lord knows those who really belong to Him.” And this also, “Let every one who names the Name of the Lord renounce all wickedness.”
\v 20 Now in a great house there are not only articles of gold and silver, but also others of wood and of earthenware; and some are for specially honourable, and others for common use.
\v 21 If therefore a man keeps himself clear of these latter, he himself will be for specially honourable use, consecrated, fit for the Master’s service, and fully equipped for every good work.
\p
\v 22 Keep a strong curb, however, on your youthful cravings; and strive for integrity, good faith, love, peace, in company with all who pray to the Lord with pure hearts.
\v 23 But avoid foolish discussions with ignorant men, knowing— as you do— that these lead to quarrels;
\v 24 and a bondservant of the Lord must not quarrel, but must be inoffensive towards all men, a skilful teacher, and patient under wrongs.
\v 25 He must speak in a gentle tone when correcting the errors of opponents, in the hope that God will at last give them repentance, for them to come to a full knowledge of the truth
\v 26 and recover sober-mindedness and freedom from the Devil’s snare, though they are now entrapped by him to do his will.
\p