\c 8
\v 1 Now in connexion with what we have been saying the chief point is that we have a High Priest who has taken His seat at the right hand of the throne of God’s Majesty in the heavens,
\v 2 and ministers in the Holy place and in the true tabernacle which not man, but the Lord pitched.
\v 3 Every High Priest, however, is appointed to offer both bloodless gifts and sacrifices. Therefore this High Priest also must have some offering to present.
\v 4 If then He were still on earth, He would not be a priest at all, since here there are already those who present the offerings in obedience to the Law,
\v 5 and serve a copy and type of the heavenly things, just as Moses was divinely instructed when about to build the tabernacle. For God said, “See that you make everything in imitation of the pattern shown you on the mountain.”
\p
\v 6 But, as a matter of fact, the ministry which Christ has obtained is all the nobler a ministry, in that He is at the same time the negotiator of a sublimer covenant, based upon sublimer promises.
\v 7 For if that first Covenant had been free from imperfection, there would have been no attempt to introduce another.
\v 8 For, being dissatisfied with His people, God says, “‘There are days coming,’ says the Lord, ‘When I will establish with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah a new Covenant--
\v 9 a Covenant unlike the one which I made with their forefathers on the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out from the land of Egypt; for they would not remain faithful to that.’ ‘So I turned from them,’ says the Lord.
\v 10 ‘But this is the Covenant that I will covenant with the house of Israel after those days,’ says the Lord: I will put My laws into their minds and will write them upon their hearts. And I will indeed be their God and they shall be My People.
\v 11 And there shall be no need for them to teach each one his fellow citizen and each one his brother, saying, Know the Lord. For all will know Me from the least of them to the greatest;
\v 12 Because I will be merciful to their wrongdoings, and their sins I will remember no longer.’”
\v 13 By using the words, “a new Covenant,” He has made the first one obsolete; but whatever is decaying and showing signs of old age is not far from disappearing altogether.
\p