\c 13
\v 1 And he took up a position upon the sands of the sea-shore. Then I saw a Wild Beast coming up out of the sea, and he had ten horns and seven heads. On his horns were ten kingly crowns, and inscribed on his heads were names full of blasphemy.
\v 2 The Wild Beast which I saw resembled a leopard, and had feet like the feet of a bear, and his mouth was like the mouth of a lion; and it was to the Dragon that he owed his power and his throne and his wide dominion.
\v 3 I saw that one of his heads seemed to have been mortally wounded; but his mortal wound was healed, and the whole world was amazed and followed him.
\v 4 And they offered worship to the Dragon, because it was to him that the Wild Beast owed his dominion; and they also offered worship to the Wild Beast, and said, “Who is there like him? And who is able to engage in battle with him?”
\v 5 And there was given him a mouth full of boastful and blasphemous words; and liberty of action was granted him for forty-two months.
\v 6 And he opened his mouth to utter blasphemies against God, to speak evil of His name and of His dwelling-place— that is to say, of those who dwell in Heaven.
\v 7 And permission was given him to make war upon God’s people and conquer them; and power was given him over every tribe, people, language and nation.
\v 8 And all the inhabitants of the earth will be found to be worshipping him: every one whose name is not recorded in the Book of Life— the Book of the Lamb who has been offered in sacrifice ever since the creation of the world.
\v 9 Let all who have ears give heed.
\v 10 If any one is eager to lead others into captivity, he must himself go into captivity. If any one is bent on killing with the sword, he must himself be killed by the sword. Here is an opportunity for endurance, and for the exercise of faith, on the part of God’s people.
\p
\v 11 Then I saw another Wild Beast, coming up out of the earth. He had two horns like those of a lamb, but he spoke like a dragon.
\v 12 And the authority of the first Wild Beast— the whole of that authority— he exercises in his presence, and he causes the earth and its inhabitants to worship the first Wild Beast, whose mortal wound had been healed.
\v 13 He also works great miracles, so as even to make fire come down from Heaven to earth in the presence of human beings.
\v 14 And his power of leading astray the inhabitants of the earth is due to the marvels which he has been permitted to work in the presence of the Wild Beast. And he told the inhabitants of the earth to erect a statue to the Wild Beast who had received the sword-stroke and yet had recovered.
\v 15 And power was granted him to give breath to the statue of the Wild Beast, so that the statue of the Wild Beast could even speak and cause all who refuse to worship it to be put to death.
\v 16 And he causes all, small and great, rich and poor, free men and slaves, to have stamped upon them a mark on their right hands or on their foreheads,
\v 17 in order that no one should be allowed to buy or sell unless he had the mark— either the name of the Wild Beast or the number which his name represents.
\v 18 Here is scope for ingenuity. Let people of shrewd intelligence calculate the number of the Wild Beast; for it indicates a certain man, and his number is 666.
\p