\c 13
\p
\v 1 As He was leaving the Temple, one of His disciples exclaimed, “Teacher, look at how marvelous these buildings are, made of such massive stones!”
\v 2 And Jesus replied, “Yes, take a good look at these great buildings. All of this will be demolished. Not a single stone will be left in its current position on top of another.”
\v 3 Later, as Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives opposite to the Temple, Peter, James, John, and Andrew asked him pritvately,
\v 4 “Tell us, when will that disaster happen, and what will be the warning signs that will lead up to that time?”
\p
\v 5 Jesus answered, “Watch out that no one misleads you,
\v 6 because many will come saying, ‘I am Jesus. I am the Christ you have been waiting for.’ And they will mislead many.
\v 7 You will hear of wars waged in other places, and threats of wars about to take place where you are. Don't worry that God is not in control, because these things will happen repeatedly before the end comes.
\v 8 There will be wars between ethnic people groups and between kingdoms. Also in various places there will be earthquakes, famines, and severe unrest. These miseries are just the start of start, like the early pains of childbirth, boding worse suffering to come.
\p
\v 9 “You yourselves must be on your guard, because people will oppose you and take you before religious councils in Jewish meeting houses, and there you will be cruelly beaten. Then some of you will be taken to be judged by governors and kings. All this will happen because you are following me, and so that you can tell them about me.
\v 10 In fact, before the end of this age, the Good News about me must be proclaimed to all nations and people groups.
\v 11 When however they are marching you along under arrest, do not be anxious with thinking beforehand about what you are going to say. Just speak whatever occurs to you when the time comes, for it actually won’t be you speaking, but the Holy Spirit.
\v 12 “The persecution will be so severe against you that there will be brothers who betray their own brother to be killed, and fathers will even betray their own children. There will also be children will rebel so much against their parents that they report them to authorities who will execute them.
\v 13 You will be objects of universal hatred because you are called by my name, but those who stand firm to the End will be saved.
\p
\v 14 “As soon, however, as you see the Abomination of Desolation standing where he ought not” --let the reader observe these words-- “then let those in Judaea escape to the hills;
\v 15 let him who is on the roof not come down and enter the house to fetch anything out of it;
\v 16 and let not him who is in the field turn back to pick up his outer garment.
\v 17 And alas for the women who at that time are with child or have infants!
\v 18 “But pray that it may not come in the winter.
\v 19 For those will be times of suffering the like of which has never been from the first creation of God’s world until now, and assuredly never will be again;
\v 20 and but for the fact that the Lord has cut short those days, no one would escape; but for the sake of His own People whom He has chosen for Himself He has cut short the days.
\v 21 “At that time if any one says to you, ‘See, here is the Christ!’ or ‘See, He is there!’ do not believe it.
\v 22 For there will rise up false Christs and false prophets, displaying signs and prodigies with a view to lead astray--if indeed that were possible--even God’s own People.
\v 23 But as for yourselves, be on your guard: I have forewarned you of everything.
\p
\v 24 “At that time, however, after that distress, the sun will be darkened and the moon will not shed her light;
\v 25 the stars will be seen falling from the firmament, and the forces which are in the heavens will be disordered and disturbed.
\v 26 And then will they see the Son of Man coming in clouds with great power and glory.
\v 27 Then He will send forth the angels and gather together His chosen People from north, south, east and west, from the remotest parts of the earth and the sky.
\p
\v 28 “Learn from the fig-tree the lesson it teaches. As soon as its branch has become soft and it is bursting into leaf, you know that summer is near.
\v 29 So also do you, when you see these things happening, be sure that He is near, at your very door.
\v 30 I tell you in solemn truth that the present generation will certainly not pass away without all these things having first taken place.
\v 31 Earth and sky will pass away, but it is certain my words will not pass away.
\p
\v 32 “But as to that day or the exact time no one knows--not even the angels in Heaven, nor the Son, but the Father alone.
\v 33 Take care, be on the alert, and pray; for you do not know when it will happen.
\v 34 It is like a man living abroad who has left his house, and given the management to his servants--to each one his special duty--and has ordered the porter to keep awake.
\v 35 Be wakeful therefore, for you know not when the master of the house is coming--in the evening, at midnight, at cock-crow, or at dawn.
\v 36 Beware lest He should arrive unexpectedly and find you asleep.
\v 37 Moreover, what I say to you I say to all--Be wakeful!”
\p