\c 3
\v 1 “To the minister of the Church at Sardis write as follows: “‘This is what He who has the seven Spirits of God and the seven stars says. I know your doings— you are supposed to be alive, but in reality you are dead.
\v 2 Rouse yourself and keep awake, and strengthen those things which remain but have well-nigh perished; for I have found no doings of yours free from imperfection in the sight of My God.
\v 3 Be mindful, therefore, of the lessons you have received and heard. Continually lay them to heart, and repent. If, however, you fail to rouse yourself and keep awake, I shall come upon you suddenly like a thief, and you will certainly not know the hour at which I shall come to judge you.
\v 4 Yet you have in Sardis a few who have not soiled their garments; and they shall walk with Me in white; for they are worthy.
\v 5 “‘In this way he who overcomes shall be clothed in white garments; and I will certainly not blot out his name from the Book of Life, but will acknowledge him in the presence of My Father and His angels.
\v 6 Let all who have ears give heed to what the Spirit is saying to the Churches.’
\p
\v 7 “To the minister of the Church at Philadelphia write as follows: “‘This is what the holy One and the true says— He who has the key of David— He who opens and no one shall shut, and shuts and no one shall open.
\v 8 I know your doings. I have put an opened door in front of you, which no one can shut; because you have but a little power, and yet you have guarded My word and have not disowned Me.
\v 9 I will cause some belonging to Satan’s synagogue who say that they themselves are Jews, and are not, but are liars— I will make them come and fall at your feet and know for certain that I have loved you.
\v 10 Because in spite of suffering you have guarded My word, I in turn will guard you from that hour of trial which is soon coming upon the whole world, to put to the test the inhabitants of the earth.
\v 11 I am coming quickly: cling to that which you already possess, so that your wreath of victory be not taken away from you.
\v 12 “‘He who overcomes— I will make him a pillar in the sanctuary of My God, and he shall never go out from it again. And I will write on him the name of My God, and the name of the city of My God, the new Jerusalem, which is to come down out of Heaven from My God, and My own new name.
\v 13 Let all who have ears give heed to what the Spirit is saying to the Churches.’
\p
\v 14 “And to the minister of the Church at Laodicea write as follows: “‘This is what the Amen says— the true and faithful witness, the Beginning and Lord of God’s Creation.
\v 15 I know your doings— you are neither cold nor hot; I would that you were cold or hot!
\v 16 Accordingly, because you are lukewarm and neither hot nor cold, before long I will vomit you out of My mouth.
\v 17 You say, I am rich, and have wealth stored up, and I stand in need of nothing; and you do not know that if there is a wretched creature it is *you* — pitiable, poor, blind, naked.
\v 18 Therefore I counsel you to buy of Me gold refined in the fire that you may become rich, and white robes to put on, so as to hide your shameful nakedness, and eye-salve to anoint your eyes with, so that you may be able to see.
\v 19 All whom I hold dear, I reprove and chastise; therefore be in earnest and repent.
\v 20 I am now standing at the door and am knocking. If any one listens to My voice and opens the door, I will go in to be with him and will feast with him, and he shall feast with Me.
\v 21 “‘To him who overcomes I will give the privilege of sitting down with Me on My throne, as I also have overcome and have sat down with My Father on His throne.
\v 22 Let all who have ears give heed to what the Spirit is saying to the Churches.’”
\p