\c 4
\v 1 I solemnly implore you, in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus who is about to judge the living and the dead, and by His Appearing and His Kingship:
\v 2 proclaim God’s message, be zealous in season and out of season; convince, rebuke, encourage, with the utmost patience as a teacher.
\v 3 For a time is coming when they will not tolerate wholesome instruction, but, wanting to have their ears tickled, they will find a multitude of teachers to satisfy their own fancies;
\v 4 and will turn away from listening to the truth and will turn aside to fables.
\v 5 But as for you, you must exercise habitual self-control, and not live a self-indulgent life, but do the duty of an evangelist and fully discharge the obligations of your office.
\v 6 I for my part am like a drink-offering which is already being poured out; and the time for my departure is now close at hand.
\v 7 I have gone through the glorious contest; I have run the race; I have guarded the faith.
\v 8 From this time onward there is reserved for me the crown of righteousness which the Lord, the righteous Judge, will award to me on that day, and not only to me, but also to all who love the thought of His Appearing.
\p
\v 9 Make an effort to come to me speedily.
\v 10 For Demas has deserted me--loving, as he does, the present age--and has gone to Thessalonica; Crescens has gone to Galatia, and Titus to Dalmatia.
\v 11 Luke is the only friend I now have with me. Call for Mark on your way and bring him with you, for he is a great help to me in my ministry.
\v 12 Tychicus I have sent to Ephesus.
\v 13 When you come, bring with you the cloak which I left behind at Troas at the house of Carpus, and the books, but especially the parchments.
\v 14 Alexander the metal-worker showed bitter hostility towards me: the Lord will requite him according to his doings.
\v 15 You also should beware of him; for he has violently opposed our preaching.
\p
\v 16 At my first defence I had no one at my side, but all deserted me. May it not be laid to their charge.
\v 17 The Lord, however, stood by me and filled me with inward strength, that through me the Message might be fully proclaimed and that all the Gentiles might hear it; and I was rescued from the lion’s jaws.
\v 18 The Lord will deliver me from every cruel attack and will keep me safe in preparation for His heavenly Kingdom. To Him be the glory until the Ages of the Ages! Amen.
\v 19 Greet Prisca and Aquila, and the household of Onesiphorus.
\v 20 Erastus stayed in Corinth; Trophimus I left behind me at Miletus, ill.
\v 21 Make an effort to come before winter. Eubulus greets you, and so do Pudens, Linus, Claudia, and all the brethren.
\v 22 The Lord be with your spirit. Grace be with you all.